Program Development and Algorithm Assignment
Many students think that programming is just sitting down and writing code to make your
computer do something. There is much more involved that just writing code.
The following video is on one interpretation of what coding is: What is Programming video
In reality, programming involved much more than just writing code. Programs should be written
with thorough consideration of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Section 2.17 in
your book introduces it. The following video provides an introduction to what SDLC is:
Software Development Life Cycle Explained
Here is a short video to talk about the difference between programming and coding:
Programming vs Coding
Watch the 3 videos above. Then answer the following questions (in your own words):
1.
2.
3.
4.

What are the 7 stages of SDLC and why is each phase important?
Which stage do you think is the most important? Why?
Which stage do you think is the least important? Why?
You decide that you are going to bake a cake. Go through each of the 7 stages and use
those to figure out what kind of cake you are going to make and how to accomplish it.
Be very specific for each stage as to what would need to be done.

Computers are not smart – they do what they are told to do. So, you have to be very precise in
telling them what to do. This often includes going through the first four stages of SDLC before
ever programming. However, sometimes getting to the coding stage can be done by creating
algorithms to write the code from. Please look at the following items:
•
•
•

What is an algorithm article
What is an algorithm video
For fun - Big Bang Theory Friendship Algorithm

Now, based on the information from these, create an algorithm to make your favorite sandwich.
Your algorithm must be detailed enough that anyone that can read, can follow your algorithm
exactly as it is written to produce your favorite sandwich.
This is not considered a good algorithm:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Get a piece of bread
Spread peanut butter on it
Get another piece of bread
Spread jelly on it
Put the two pieces of bread together
Eat it!

Your algorithm should start with what type of sandwich it is, what ingredients are needed; what
other equipment is needed (knife, pan, etc), precise steps on how to make the sandwich (similar
to a recipe), and everyone following the steps should get the same result. I have seen the
directions for making a peanut butter and jelly sandwich up to 8 pages typed – that person got an
A.
Your answers should be typed in a file in a format that is readable to your instructor - Word
document, .rtf file, .pdf file (not PAGES).
The following will be the components you will be graded on:
Criteria
Questions 1 through 3 – 8 points each
Question 4 (5 points for each stage)
Algorithm
Total Points

Points
24
35
41
100

